# VUE - Part 2
> ## Objectives:
> 
> 1. Bootstrap a Vue.js application with @vue/cli
> 2. Understand the concept of component, component state and components hierarchy.
> 3. Understand Vue.js routing mechanisms
> 4. Understand the component lifecycle
> 5. Understand communication from Child to Parent using events.

> ## Step 1: Create a Vue.js app with @vue/cli
> 1. Install @vue-cli
> 2. Use **vue create** to create an app called **cafe-with-a-vue**
> 3. Start the app using **npm run serve**

> ## Step 2: Understand the concept of component (template, style, script)
>
> 1. Create a component called **NavBar**.
> 2. In the **template section** of the **NavBar** component, define a **nav** HTML element
>    - The **nav** HTML element will define the following links (Home, About, Contact)
> 3. Import the **NavBar** component in the **App** component
> 4. Display the **NavBar** component at the top of the **app** div, using the kabeb-case notation.
> 5. Check that the **NavBar** component is successfully displayed

> ## Step 3: Understand components hierarchy and communication from Parent to child via props.
>
> 1. Create a component called **NavLink**.
>    - The **NavLink** component will define two props **url** and **text**
> 2. Refactor the **NavBar** component to use **Navlink** components to display the links.
> 3. In the **NavBar** and **NavLink** component hierarchy, identify the **Parent** and the **Child** component
> 4. Answer the question: What are **props** used for?

> ## Step 4: Install and use Vue.js router.
> 
> 1. Use @vue/cli to install the router. Activate the history mode in your router.
> 2. List the artifacts created by the router installation.
> 3. Add a /contact route. 
> 4. Add a /detail/:id route and a **ItemDetail** component. The Item id will be displayed in the page
> 5. Navigate inside the application with the Home, Contact and About links. Check that history is working as expected
> 6. Invoke the URL /detail/1 in the browser and check that the Item id is displayed in the **detail page**
> 7. Try to invoke a non existing URL. What's happening? 
> 8. Adapt the router to display a **PageNotFound** page, when a non existing URL is called.
> 9. Refactor the **NavBar** and **NavLink** components.
>    - The **NavBar** and **NavLink** component will encapusaled the artifacts  generated by the router
>    - Call The **NavBar** component in the **App** component

> ## Step 5: Understand component lifecycle and components hooks.
> 1. Inside the **ItemDetail** component, define the following  methods:
>    - beforeCreate() 
     - created() 
     - beforeMount() 
     - mounted() 
     - destroyed() 
  2. Log to the console inside this methods
  3. What are the possible use cases for this hooks?


> ## Step 6: Understand communication from Child to Parent using events.
> 1. Add a Link in the **Nav** component called **Cart** 
> 2. Add a section besides the Cart link. 
>    - This section will display the number of items in the cart.
>    - The number of items in the cart will be displayeds inside a circle. Default is 0.
> 3. Inside the **ItemDetail** component, add a **Add to Cart** button
>    - On click on the **Add to cart** button, emit a **update-cart-items-counter** event
> 4. Answer the question: Who is the **Parent** component of the **ItemDetail** component?
> 5. In the **Parent** component of the **ItemDetail** component:
>    - Intercept the **update-cart-items-counter** event, in a method called **updateCartItemsCounterHandler**
>    - In the **updateCartItemsCounterHandler** method, increment the **cartItemsCounter** variable.
>    - Check that the counter is incremented on click on the **Add** to Cart  button

